Abstract
--------

![](../images/stat159-logo.png%20=%20300x)

This paper will go through many different types of computational tools
that help make developing new software or research as well as
collaborating much easier and more efficient. The tools that this paper
will discuss are Git, GitHub, pandoc, Markdown, Make, and Vim text
editor. It will dive into the pros and cons of using these different
types of tools and how to use them to create a reproducible project.
After reading, one can easily follow the same steps and achieve
reproducible results, and hopefully maintain such practice in the long
term for future development and research. Lastly, this paper will
conlude with discussions on other software considerations as well as on
reproducible computational research.

Introduction
------------

One might ask, what is *reproducibility* and why is it important?
Imagine a researcher has spent tens of hours to write a piece of
computational tool that was vital to his or her research project.
However, the researcher forgets to mark down the steps to obtain the
final result. Not only does the researcher now have to restart from
scratch and rewrite the whole process, but the researcher also has to
remember the correct steps. Having reproducibility in one's research
allows same or different researchers to replicate identical findings
under the same environment, including computer systems, data input, and
parameters. Having the ability to reproduce identical results allows
other researchers to expand on the research in a collaborative manner.
This paper will go through some tools that will help with collaborative
and reproducible research:

-   Git
-   GitHub
-   Markdown
-   bash
-   Pandoc
-   Makefile

Discussion
----------

### Git

### GitHub

### Markdown

### bash

### Pandoc

### Makefile
